And so here, the next part is what I
think is the most interesting part.
And this is what we call
a nested selection in D3.
And so, for each film flower,
we have a different number of
petal path elements depending
on the data for that movie.
So to be able to dynamically create
the correct number of path elements,
we use the same select all data
enter append pattern as before.
So this is what it looks like.
We again have our group selection up here.
And we say, take that selection
of groups and within each group,
we want to select all the paths
with that don't yet exist.
We are going to bind data to that
empty selection of paths and
we are going to create the correct
number of path elements
with the correct data bound depending
on whatever we return in here.
So, what goes inside in this data binding
part is what I think is
the most interesting.
So it turns out the .data function also
accepts functions, not just arrays.
And so the key is to write a function
that returns an array of objects.
Because remember again,
at the end of the day,
.data needs to have an array
to know how many data
elements to match how many DOM elements.
And so let's take a look at this.
So we have select all paths in our group
elements, which is currently empty.
And then what we're going
to do is we're going to
pass in a function and that function will
be passed in the data that's been
bound on that parent group element.
So you can see that here, we'll pass that
data in, and we can use that data to say,
okay, so this first group element, the
data says the number of petals is five.
So we can say d.numPetals.
And in this _times is a kind of utility
function that I use
really often with Lodash.
And this _times just says,
whatever the number
is passed in here,
create an array of that length.
In this case,
a length of the number of petals and
the array should have whatever is
returned in this second function.
And so for example, in the first
group with our minions data,
we're going to create
an array of length five.
And within there,
what we want is to be able to say, okay,
so the first petal we want to
rotate at zero degrees, and
then the second petal,
we want to rotate it by 360 degrees
divided by whatever the number
of petals there are.
So then, for example, so that's the index
times 360 degrees divided
by the number of petals and
what that gives us is the first
path will have a rotation of zero,
the second path will
have a rotation of 75.
The third one will have 144, and etc.
And for the second group, the data that's
been bound is the movie inception.
And in that case,
there's a lot more IMDB votes.
So the number of petals that
we calculated was nine.
And so if we invoke this function,
this _times function on inception,
what we get is an array of length nine.
And within it,
is objects that include a rotation,
where the first rotation is zero,
the second rotation is 40 degrees,
the third one is 80 degrees, and so on.
And so this will evaluate again
to the array of objects, and
then we're going to enter append.
So what we end up with
is a set of five paths,
[COUGH] for
minions with the data bound to them.
And for this one, a set of nine
paths with the data bound on them.
So, if we toggle to see
the resulting D3 selection,
I actually think this is
the most interesting part,
which is you can see it's an array of 135.
And so it has 135 movie,
so it's an array of 135.
But within each of that
is an array of five,
array of seven, or array of six.
So the structure it really is kind
of a group parent element, and
then all of the children elements
in this nested structure.
And you can see that we have
the rotation in here as well as,
I kind of copy and
paste over the parent data.
So you can see this one is rotation 72,
and
the actual what I'm
returning within the .data
is the number of times and
I create a copy.
So here what I'm doing is
I have a new object and
I create a copy of the parent data.
And I also add in that rotation
to get the data that's
been bound to each of our
children path elements.